all right we begin with developing news
on the Diplomatic efforts to end the war
on Gaza reuter says it's obtains a draft
document that says Hamas has proposed a
three-stage ceasefire plan in response
to Qatari and Egyptian mediators it
involves the exchange of Israeli
captives captured by Hamas on October
the 7th for Palestinian prisoners secure
securing the Reconstruction of Gaza
ensuring the complete withdrawal of
Israeli forces and and the exchanging of
bodies we have with us Hashim albar he's
joining us here uh in Doha I suppose
Hashim the devil is in the detail so
what are you learning about this
three-stage proposal very interesting
developments yesterday when the Qatari
prime minister Muhammad Alani met with
blinken both said that they believe the
elements are there for a deal the
qataris said that they were confident
and that Hamas uh response was positive
and then they said we're not going to go
into details because it's a very
sensitive thing it has to go now to the
Israelis and the other ones to have to
look into the details except that the
document was leaked earlier today and I
know from our sources that the bulk of
the this is is authentic Hamas wants
this to be a phased agreement that
starts with the announcement of a
truce of about six weeks 45 days
in exchange for the release of Israeli
captives mostly women and the elderly
but when you look at the details of the
agreement they say we would like to see
Israeli troops pull out from the urban
areas populated areas and
relocate onto the suburbs humanitarian
Aid to be allowed and within the first
phase we would like to maintain indirect
talks with the Israelis and which is
going to be through the key mediators
Qatar and and Egypt why they want this
to happen because this is where they're
going to have to agree on the
criteria of every single phase of the
agreement I'll give you an example so
Hamas is saying we are going to release
the women and the elderly in exchange
for an unspecified number of pales
Israeli Palestinians detained by Israel
it's going to be up to the qataris and
to Egyptians to the Nar with the
differences between Hamas and Israel now
we come to phase to which is extremely
crucial and important they want to get
guarantees that the Israelis are going
to make an announcement
of a permanent ceasefire it's going to
extend for 45 days but during that
period they say they are going to
release all the uh the other uh captives
mostly uh soldiers okay so that's
important then because the soldiers uh
are somewhat of hamas's trump card are
they not that's the that's the key
component of their deal because this is
where they believe when it comes to the
aspect they are going to ask for a huge
number of Palestinians detained in
Israel to be released and we're going to
go back to the criteria itself and
whether the qataris and Egyptians will
have more leverage to try to make sure
that this H this succeeds and this is
where the Americans will have to have a
say now you go to phase three so we're
talking about now 90 days almost 90 days
phase one and phase two I'll tell you
about the political calculus of Hamas
when it comes to the phases of this
agreement they're going to exchange the
remains of those who were killed the
Israeli captives killed Hamas has been
saying over the past few months that
many of those captives who were killed
in Israeli bombardment in exchange for
Hamas fighters who they say were killed
and they would like to get back their
remains at this
phase Hamas wants to ensure coming back
now to their political calculus that
after almost 100 35 days it becomes a
new political reality which is basically
in 145 days we didn't have any
Relentless bombardment and therefore it
becomes a political reality and the
ceasefire itself becomes a status
quo they do understand I think one of
the reasons why this document was leaked
today is that Netanyahu and his War
cabinet is looking into those details
they will have to come up with an answer
to the Americans to Blink in and then
who's going to to come back to the to
Qatar and then after that we're likely
to hear the the official announcement of
the agreement but for the Israelis it's
also an extremely delicate thing to do
because it's also about the personal
political survival of Netanyahu yeah and
the the way you have to sell it to your
own people has to take into account that
this is widely going to be seen as a
dignified exit strategy same thing for
Hamas and particularly for its top
command
inaz and Muhammad because when you look
at what has been happening over the last
four months you cannot come back to the
people of Gaza and say you know what we
have a deal which is which falls short
of the expectations of the people we've
seen the reaction of the people of Gaza
over the last few weeks when they
thought that suddenly an announcement
was going to be imminent and they took
to the streets celebrating the and they
were so frustrated when they were told
no you have to wait because it hasn't
been finalized massive political
pressure on Hamas and Israel as we speak
to accept this agreement ment and you
see
the Hamas is trying to reinvent itself
as a very practical pragmatic uh element
in this story by saying you know what
we're becoming more receptive than ever
to the demands of the International
Community but more so for our own key
Partners or key mediators the Egyptians
and the Saudis we don't want to be SE be
seen as the ones who are torpedoing this
deal look hasham I mean we do have Rory
chalon standing by for us and occupied
East Jerusalem so in a moment I'll bring
him in find out what we
canally from the Israelis and and blink
of is in Aviv today but let me ask you
this Hashim obviously this is a big if
right if if the Israelis accept this or
there are any changes to a ceasefire
deal is there anything in that leaked
document that talks about who will uh
guarantee the terms of any deal going
forward uh I I believe uh is going to be
I'm trying to go through the different
elements of this agreement based on the
same guarantees that were implemented
during the first agreement that happened
in late November which is basically you
have Egyptians operating in in in across
the border with their own people the uh
general intelligence uh directorate led
by abas camel and they are in touch with
different factions in in Gaza and you
have the qataris who have Have Been
instrumental Let me just explain to our
viewers how this works so each time the
the it's like like particularly when it
comes to this agreement it was handed
over to the political of Bureau of Hamas
based in
Doha but then the another ones who will
have to have the final say they send it
back to yya Sinar and Muhammad right yya
is the top political leader inaz
Muhammad is the top military commander
and you have to have their say you have
to have them on board otherwise you have
to have a deal they will have to talk to
their own people top commanders the
founders of Hamas those who have huge
political religious say in the in the
strip they will come back to the
political Bureau the political Bureau
hands over the the the final answer to
the qataris the qataris will give it
back to the Americans or to the Israelis
exactly what happened within this one
why is it critical why is it
delicate I think it's also an extremely
delicate thing for the Americans because
when you saw yesterday Anthony blinkin
he didn't mention a ceasefire we do
understand why but at the same time he
said that he thinks a deal is is is now
possible but the reason why he's going
to Israel is to put more pressure on the
Israelis to accommodate some of those
demands um for this deal to move forward
because ultimately it's about the way
it's going to be perceived by the
Israelis and by the Palestinians it's
very it's very crucial for the political
survival of Hamas and and and more so
for Benjamin Netanyahu and I think it's
going to come down to whether you will
be able to look into those very small
details of the agreement Implement them
and move forward but as far as we are
concerned it is different than the first
agreement it's based on phases it's very
important for Hamas because they believe
this time not anything sure that than a
prolonged ceasefire is a big no okay
Hashim thank you so much for the time
being we'll now bring in Rory Chalin
joining us from occupied East Jerusalem
Rory so now we have this a draft
document that Hamas has proposed the
three-stage ceasefire plan as hasham was
just explaining to us Rory um what can
we expect to happen in Tel Aviv today
also keeping in mind that you have the
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin who's
there today and he'll be meeting with
Israeli
officials yeah blink's got a a very full
day of diplomacy uh on Wednesday first
of all he's meeting with Netanyahu uh
then he's me meeting with the Israeli uh
chief of military staff then he's
meeting with the Israeli defense
minister y have Galant then he's meeting
with the president isak Herzog and then
he's going to rala and he's going to be
meeting with the Palestinian president
mmud abas Hashim was exceptionally
interesting there on the details of uh
this Hamas response we know that this
response was passed uh from Hamas
through the ceries uh to mosad and is
being picked apart poured over analyzed
by the Israeli leadership right now and
will be for hours to come uh what we
don't know yet is what their response uh
is likely to
be we get the impression from the ceries
that they are optimistic that this is
something that can achieve a
breakthrough deal um there is less
optimism I think coming from the
Americans and there is much less
optimism uh coming from the Israelis now
the Americans blinkin is saying that he
thinks that a deal is possible and is
necessary but Biden uh when asked about
it very recently in a press conference
said that he thought that hamas's uh
demands here were a little bit over the
top in Israel itself much much more
negative negative it is very difficult
to square at the moment the details that
we are getting from uh this leak
document and hamas's overall demand
which is essentially that Israel ends
the war in return for exchanges of
captives and a ceasefire Etc with
Israel's war goals which are to keep its
occupation in in Gaza and to eliminate
Hamas as a military force course these
two things at the moment do not seem
reconcilable so we may well have more
rounds of negotiations to go okay thank
you Rory Chalin reporting from occupied
East
Jerusalem